# SQL-Assessment-Nike

##SQL Assessment - Nike

###Make sure you are connected to the Nike Database. The connection link can be found here → Nike Database Tab

Question #1: 
If we exclude the discounts that have been given, the expected profit margin for each product is calculated by: (retail price - cost) / retail price. 

Create a column that flags products with a name that includes “Vintage” as products from Nike Vintage and Nike Official otherwise. 

Calculate the expected profit margins for each product name and include the group that splits products between Nike Official and Nike Vintage in the result.

Expected column names: business_unit, product_name, profit_margin
💡

Question #2: 
What is the profit margin for each distribution center? Are there any centers that stand out?

Expected column names: name, profit_margin
💡

The profit margin calculated based on the retail price is only realistic if products get sold for the retail price, which is not guaranteed. The real profit margins that have been realized can be calculated using the sales price that is on the order items. 

Question #3: 
The real profit margin per order item is calculated by: (sales price - cost) / sales price. By summing up all the order items, we will find the real profit margin generated by the products.

Calculate the profit margin for the Nike Official products: Nike Pro Tights, Nike Dri-FIT Shorts, and Nike Legend Tee

Expected column names: product_name, profit_margin
💡

Question #4: 
Calculate the real profit margin by product and split the data using the created date before 2021-05-01 and post 2021-05-01 for Nike Official order items.

Expected column names: product_name, may21_split, profit_margin
💡

In order to show the difference in the profit margins between the Nike Official and Nike Vintage business units, we need to show the numbers side by side.


Question #5: 
Calculate the profit margin by product for both Nike Official and Nike Vintage products in a single view. 

Expected column names: product_name, profit_margin
💡

Question #6: 
What are the top 10 products by profit margin from Nike Official and Nike Vintage? Include the product name, profit margin, and what business unit (Nike Official or Nike Vintage) sells the product.

Expected column names: business_unit, product_name, profit_margin
